

Nelson Mandela – The Man with a Vision for South Africa






















The story of 
Nelson Mandela

                          
                          Author of the story: Nathan Brennan


Nelson Mandela was an icon of South Africa and black rights, in this piece we will go over his story of setbacks, hope and patience.






















 More true stories



Introduction




Nelson Mandela was the man who became the first black representative of
state in South Africa in the 1990s after decades of serving unwarranted
prison time. Alongside being a literal leader for his country, he was a
figurehead for the revolutionary changes in South Africa for its racial
divisions and issues between blacks and whites in the country.




Before




Nelson Mandela’s father died very early on in his life, leading to him
being raised by Jongintaba rather than his family. This was something
Mandela would struggle with as part of his phase of upbringing and growing
up in early life.




Eventually, he would go on to pursue a movement and mentality of black
activism and racial equality in South Africa. However, he would become a
target due to this activism, despite its innocent nature in the 1950s,
being arrested. It was during his court proceedings over the next
half-decade that he would divorce his wife Nomzamo, proving to be a hurtful
and stressful half-decade for Nelson.




Eventually, he would be sentenced to five years of prison time upon
returning to South Africa from being underground in 1960, after spending
some time learning about guerrilla warfare tactics after abandoning his
nonviolent message to protests due to the murder of innocent and unarmed
black South Africans at Sharpeville in 1960. This was a turning point for
Mandela. However, not even by the end of the decade, Mandela would receive
a life sentence in prison, even barely escaping being sentenced to death in
1964. However, this would become the moment that would define his life, not
end it.




After




Mandela would study to become a black lawyer and would achieve that goal
upon passing at South African Native College. As well as this, he would
later go on to become involved in the forming of the Freedom Charter
document, which in short, called for a non-racial social democracy amongst
South Africa.




Despite his eventual life-sentence in prison, he would be released from
prison in 1990 by then President de Klerk. He was chosen by de Klerk to be
the deputy president of the ANC, and would eventually go on to become the
president of the party a year later in 1991, paving the way for Mandela
into the path of politics, leading on to him receiving the highest honor in
1994, when he became President of South Africa after so many years of
struggles both mentally and physically. He would use both his role in the
ANC and his role as President to attempt to bring about peaceful,
non-racial democracy to all of South Africa.




He would eventually retire from politics in 1999, deciding not to pursue a
second term as President of South Africa, and would go on to lead a life of
activism and representation as an icon of his country and as an icon of
black equality across the world. He would have a day named after him in
2009, being acknowledged by the United Nations as Nelson Mandela
International Day, which takes place on the 18th of July annually. Nelson
would eventually pass away in late 2013, having lived a full life and
leaving behind an iconic legacy that will live on forever in not only South
Africa, but for the entire world as a lesson of racial equality and human
equality regardless of gender, race, color, disability or anything else
that may lead to someone being seen as different. We are all the same. We
are all human, and that is the message that Nelson Mandela’s life left
behind with all that he had done.




Lessons




1. Fight for what you believe in




Mandela spent the majority of his life fighting for black and racial
equality in his country of South Africa, and seemingly never deterred from
that goal of achieving racial equality in the country despite his countless
set-backs, especially when receiving the ultimate set-back of life
imprisonment. He would continue to dedicate his life to racial equality in
South Africa, even after being released from prison in 1990, and even after
being elected as President of South Africa in 1994. He never gave up on
what he believed in, regardless of the consequence of his beliefs and where
they would land him on his path to justice.




2. Always search for positivity




When imprisoned for life, Mandela could have easily given up hope and
wallowed in his sorrows, and of course on many occasions he would have
fallen into that abyss in prison, however he always bounced back with a
positive and patient outlook that all would turn out okay.




He would use the hope of his family to remain positive from prison,
constantly trying to remain an active father despite his separation from
his children. Mandela’s biggest assisting tool during his time in prison
was hope. The hope of being free, the hope for his country, and the hope of
seeing his family again one day were all things that would lead to his
immense positivity and patience despite his situation. This was largely one
of the contributing factors that got him through the majority of his
sentence in prison, and I suppose, when we lose everything, the only thing
they cannot take from us is a positive outlook and our hope and that was
something Mandela realized and hung onto for as long as he could.




Conclusion




In conclusion, Nelson Mandela is an icon for humanity, and a life that can
and should be learned from as a beacon of hope that one can achieve
whatever so long as they do not give in to the world around them. He was a
leader and activist for those racial discriminated against and racial/black
equality in a racially unjust world. He was an icon for South Africa and a
man who rose from the ashes into the highest seat in his countries land,
becoming president.





Do not miss the chance to check out 
other inspirational and true stories
 available at SuninMe.org













