

Steve Jobs – A Story of Overcoming Obstacles






















The story of 
Steve Jobs

                          
                          Author of the story: Nathan Brennan


Learn how Steve Jobs overcame childhood trauma and other obstacles to become an innovator in the technology and animation world.






















 More true stories



Introduction




Steve Jobs was a business magnate and a widely successful innovator in his
time. He is widely known as the man who achieved so much in his lifetime
and pioneered the computer, personal device and phone industry as the CEO
and co-founder of the first company to be worth over $1 trillion with
Apple. But what obstacles did Steve Jobs have to overcome to get that point
in his life where he became known as an icon of human progress? In this
piece, we will be going over the obstacles that he faced on his path to
success and how he overcame them, as well as what people and society can
learn from the path he walked.




The Obstacles Steve Jobs Faced




Steve was set to struggle to succeed from his birth. He was born to a
young, unwed graduate student who had decided that the best outcome for her
child was to put him up for adoption. It was at this time that a couple who
had offered to take him upon his birth was turned down by Steve’s
biological mother due to the fact that she wanted Steve to be brought up by
a family who had graduated from college, which this couple had not done.
They eventually managed to adopt Steve as a result of promising that he
would attend college down the line no matter what. And that he did.




However, Steve would hit the first roadblock of his adult-life at this
point. He had decided to drop out of college as he had no idea what he
wanted to do with his life as well as having no idea how college was going
to help him figure this path out. This was the time when Steve just let
whatever will be, be and trusted that life would turn out alright. He slept
on the floor of friend’s rooms and he would return Coke bottles for the
5cent deposits in order to survive and buy food. It was during this time
that Steve would attend drop-in classes in calligraphy, which he thought
would have no bearing in his life, but he attended nonetheless out of
interest. Little did he know at the time that this would be the pre-set for
the customizable fonts and spacing for the iconic Macintosh computer.




It was not long after that Steve started a company in his garage with a
friend, where eventually, ten years down the line, it would be worth over
$2billion. However, it was during this time that he was fired by the
company that he had founded. This was a shock for Steve, but he states that
it was the one decision that shaped the rest of his life.




In 2004, the beginning of a series of health problems began as he was
diagnosed with a supposedly incurable cancer that would leave him with an
expected three-six months left to live. He was told by the doctor to “go
home and get your things in order”, which Steve states is ‘doctor code’ for
“prepare to die”. This event was followed by a liver transplant that he
needed in 2009 and ultimately in 2011 he passed away through a respiratory
arrest through a reoccurrence of his pancreatic cancer with his family
around him.




How Did Steve Jobs Overcome His Obstacles?




Steve always acknowledged that at every point in his life, he never had the
answers. He states that “you cannot connect the dots looking forward, you
can only connect them looking backward”. As previously stated, Steve
realized over time that his firing from Apple was the greatest thing that
ever happened to him. He felt that the heaviness of his success was
replaced by the lightness of being able to begin again.




It was at this ‘reset-era’ that Steve started two new companies and met the
love of his life. He began a company named NeXT and Pixar, he describes
this time period as the “most creative period of his life”. Pixar would go
on to become the most successful animation studio on the planet and NeXT
would eventually be bought by Apple, cementing Steve’s circle of life as he
returned to Apple. This turn of events highlights Steve’s belief that
things would just work out no matter the circumstances if he kept his
interest high and passion flowing. Alongside his return to Apple, Steve had
made a beautiful family, which is the ultimate goal of life.




Steve would show his ultimate passion for success and pride in his work as
despite his resignation as Apple CEO in 2011, he would continue to work for
the entire six weeks leading up to the day before his death. Steve lived,
breathed and experienced what it was to be a man who prided himself on his
projects and work, and no matter what, put his all into everything he did
in both sickness and in health.




Key Lessons for Inspiration




Steve himself had many lessons that can be learned from his life story.
There are many lessons that can be stated, but here are a few to consider.




1. Always Bounce Back from Life’s Hardships




He believed that when life has decided to throw a curved ball at you, that
it is vital to not let it deter you from your goal. Shown with his health
problems and continuation to work, as well as his firing from Apple to only
go on and create one of the most successful animation studios ever.




2. Discover What You Love to Feed Your Path to Success




Steve was also convinced that the only thing that kept him going despite
his setbacks was that he loved what he did, and he felt that for everybody,
it is vital to find what you love in life in order to keep bouncing back
from the setbacks you will face.




3. Acknowledge Your Mortality and Realize You Have Nothing to Lose




The acknowledgment of one’s mortality and inevitable death is of utmost
importance and was always something that Steve would think of when needed
guidance on important life choices. He states that “Remembering that you
are going to die is the best way to avoid the trap of thinking you have
something to lose”. Always live life in the moment and follow your heart
and intuition to guide you to your life’s purpose, as they will always know
the answer before you do.




4. Do Not Waste Your Life Being Concerned with Other People’s Opinions




Steve states that “your time is limited, so do not waste it living someone
else’s life, don’t be trapped with dogma, which is living with the knowing
of other people’s opinions”. Steve followed his own heart and head with
every vital decision he made on his path to success, despite the obvious
public and private judgments of others. We must not let others waste our
lives for us by letting their thoughts and opinions drag us into the mud.
We must live our own life for ourselves.




Conclusion




In conclusion, Steve Jobs was a man who shaped a large majority of the
technological world we live in today. As well as this, he was a man who had
to overcome many setbacks to get to the level of success he had achieved
before his death. His words of wisdom are ones that everyone should
consider when wanting to discover what purpose their life has in this
world.





Do not miss the chance to check out 
other inspirational and true stories
 available at SuninMe.org













