

Mother Teresa – A Woman of the People






















The story of 
Mother Teresa

                          
                          Author of the story: Nathan Brennan


Mother Teresa was a selfless woman who sought to help those worse off than her at her own loss, this was the foundations that made her a modern saint.






















 More true stories



Introduction




Mother Teresa is known in the modern day as one of the kindest and most
caring women of the 20
th
 century. She saved many lives at her
own financial and lively sacrifice, no doubt. Her honors throughout her
lifetime included the Nobel Peace Prize, as well as the Ramon Magsaysay
Peace Prize amongst many others. As well as her awards, she was recognized
as a saint by the church after her death and was given a feast day named
after her which takes place annually on September 5
th
.




Before




Teresa left home at 18 to join a sisterhood in Ireland, however prior to
this trip would be the final time she would ever have the chance to see her
mother or her sister again in her lifetime, as they moved during her time
away. Teresa had had a continuous struggling relationship with her family
members during her time at home.




Upon moving to Calcutta, Teresa had no money, as well as no family to
assist her through this trouble. She would have to resort to begging on the
streets for money, and as for her medical assistance, it was struggling at
her lack of medical education. She had begun her battle with her belief in
God at this stage in her life too, stating that she relief on faith alone
to get through this point in her early life.




Teresa was eventually appointed the headmistress of the Loreto Convent
School, however she struggled immensely and became increasingly
guilt-ridden and disturbed at the poverty she would witness in the streets
on a daily basis. It was not long after that she had heard from God to
devote the rest of her life to those who were at the lowest end of the
societal spectrum financially and physically.




After




She would go on to spend the remaining 50 years of her life dedicating her
time to the poor and physically lost/ill, taking on the burden of their
poverty upon herself all the while. She also had begun The Missionaries of
Charity in the 50s. This charity would go on to open hospitals, orphanages
and leper houses throughout India., assisting many with struggles in their
lives. As of 2012, her Missionaries Charity is said to have over 4,000
sisters tending to those in need, being placed in over 100 countries around
the world. As well as this, Mother Teresa was a figurehead in beliefs for
women’s rights and contraceptive rights for women to have control over
their bodies in a very conservative time and place in the history of the
world.




She would go on to receive a number of individual awards for her work in
life. She was awarded the Padma Shri in 1962, the Jawaharlal Nehru Award in
1969 among several others. She would be awarded the highest honor awarded
in her homeland, that being the Bharat Ratna in 1980. Amongst her native
awards, she received a number of international peace prizes too between the
60s and the 80s, which included the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979. As well as
this, as previously stated, she would become recognized as a saint by the
Catholic church post-her death in the year 2016, cementing her place as a
figure of savior of those in need and kindness in the eyes of the Catholic
church.




Key Lessons




1. Do not sit Still




Mother Teresa was a woman who had found a point in life where she herself
was not doing amazingly well, especially financially, yet she still decided
that she not rest on her current situation and look to those who were worse
off than her despite her situation itself being pretty bad and worrisome by
our standards. She saw the atrocities of poverty and disease in the streets
of Calcutta and did not remain seated, instead she stood up to assist those
as best she could who were struggling in a very difficult time throughout
Indian history.




2. Always Treat Others how you Would Want to be Treated




Mother Teresa had found herself in a difficult point in her life. Despite
this, she treated people and those in worse situations than herself with
the utmost care and respect to the best of her ability, in the hope and in
giving people the benefit of the doubt that if she were ever to find
herself in a similar situation financially or health-wise, that those
people would find themselves in the same situation as her where they would
feel a sense of responsibility to assist her in her time of need. She was a
woman who treated others how she would want to be treated, which is also a
key message in the teachings of Christianity.




Conclusion




Mother Teresa was a woman who struggled immensely throughout her life
financially and educationally in the field she wished to pursue. She would
also go on to struggle with her faith in God, despite devoting her entire
life’s meaning to the supposed message that she had received from him. She
was a woman who put others before herself in thousands of scenarios and
passed judgement on people who had found themselves in judgmental
situations as shown with leprosy, one of the most assumed diseases in the
history of mankind, yet she took pity and sought to assist them in their
hour of need. She was selfless and kind, as well as ever-looking to improve
what she had built the foundations of with her hospitals, orphanages and
leper houses, as well as her Missionary of Charity organization that she
had set up to help those in desperate need of assistance and someone to
turn to. She was an inspiration of not just the 20
th
 century,
but of human history, and that was signified by her recognition as a saint
by the Catholic church in 2016.





Do not miss the chance to check out 
other inspirational and true stories
 available at SuninMe.org













