

Helen Keller – How to Defy the Odds






















The story of 
Helen Keller

                          
                          Author of the story: Nathan Brennan


Helen Keller was an iconic activist for both disabled people and women, so how did she overcome her troubles to become such an influential person?






















 More true stories



Introduction




Helen Keller was a woman of pure inspiration. Being a renowned writer and
author, as well as becoming the first blind-deaf woman to obtain a Bachelor
of Arts degree. As well as obtaining her own day named after her, she was a
high-octane activist for social injustice when campaigning for both women’s
rights and disabled people’s acceptance and equal opportunities too.
However, her inspiring story did not come without its tribulations.




Before




Helen had went blind and deaf through illness in her early infancy, and due
to not learning to speak prior to her illness, meaning early on in her life
before her education, she had little to no form of communication between
herself and her family. This meant she had immense difficulty comprehending
the world around her whilst missing two of her most vital senses for so
long.




Being a disabled person in the 1900s was difficult enough as it is, but
along with being a woman in a patriarchal and male dominated society, meant
that success and breaking the societal barriers was double hard for her
throughout her lifetime.




Helen’s life seemed like a relentless challenge. There would never seem to
be a moment of rest for the obstacles she faced as a result of missing two
of her most important senses. However, this never defined her life and
legacy.




After




As previously stated, despite her obvious challenges, Helen Keller did not
let her disabilities define her life. She achieved so much despite the
setbacks she would have faced.




She was the first blind-deaf woman to achieve and obtain a Bachelor of Arts
degree, as well as becoming a renowned writer, publishing her own
autobiography in 1903, which is still in print to this very day and has
become known as one of the most famous autobiographies of modern times.




As well as her literary talents, she was politically active too, being a
member of the socialist party for over a decade. During this time in
politics and throughout the rest of her life, she would become known for
advocating for women’s right to vote as well as women’s right to have
access to birth control, ideologies that now seem commonplace, but in her
male dominated world, would have been met with some criticism.




She was also a prolific supporter of charities and foundations in support
of the blind amongst other disabilities. She was one of the most important
members of the American Foundation of the Blind, of which she devoted most
of her latter life to supporting the foundation by actively raising funds
for the group.




In 1964, Helen was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Along with this, 
she got to meet and speak with John. F. Kennedy, one of America's most famous presidents. 
The Presidential Medal of Freedom was an award that could be seen as the award that capped off her place 
amongst the most influential women of the 20th century.




Lessons




1. Disabilities are only a setback. They do not define you.




Helen Keller easily could have gained a victim mentality and wallowed in
her sorrows at the catastrophic and devastating hand she had been dealt so
early on in her life without being given a fair chance, but she decided to
move beyond that. Helen achieved what very few people, let alone women in
her position would have ever achieved given her circumstances, which is a
key signally to show that regardless of the disabilities you have, you can
always choose to not let those disabilities define you as a person at your
core.




2. Always strive for what you believe in.




Helen Keller is a key figure in striving for what you believe in. Her
advocacy of women’s rights in a male dominated world, as well as her
striving for acceptance of disability in a harsh world was something that
was nothing short of inspirational. Despite her setbacks and the judgements
she would have faced as a women and disabled person, she never let that get
in the way of her. She moved from field to field, achieving a high
education, along with becoming a renowned author and ascending into
politics.




3. Always strive to break barriers regardless of your societal norms.




Helen was raised in a male dominated, patriarchal society, and world.
However, she strove to break these barriers to her very last breath and
many of her efforts were not lost in vain. Women eventually obtained their
rights to vote and birth control is largely an accepted part of many modern
societies in the modern day, which Helen would have no doubt played a part
in normalizing these everyday scenarios we find ourselves in today. She
moved to break down barriers for women and disabled people, and she surely
did do that with her life, with her activist movements no doubt having an
effect even today in the modern world as women and disabled people strive
for an even higher level of equal opportunity and acceptance.




Conclusion




Helen Keller was a woman of immense bravery and inspiration, with a
resolute belief in what she and people of her similar situations could
achieve in life despite what the world she grew up in would tell her. She
was an inspiration for many suffering with disability and loss of senses,
as well as women struggling and fighting through to achieve equal rights at
a time where barriers in society had been put in place on people of her
ilk. She broke all these barriers and more of what was expected of her and
her beliefs and motivating story lives on today as many continue to fight
for women’s rights around the world and the acceptance and equal rights of
many disabled people across the globe.





Do not miss the chance to check out 
other inspirational and true stories
 available at SuninMe.org













