

Arnold Schwarzenegger: The Man of Many Mediums






















The story of 
Arnold Schwarzenegger

                          
                          Author of the story: Nathan Brennan


Arnold Schwarzenegger has become an icon. In this article we will go over the trials he faced on his path to stardom.






















 More true stories



Introduction




Arnold Schwarzenegger is now known as one of the main faces of
bodybuilding, along with being an actor who was the face of some iconic
characters in movies such as the Terminator, and even beyond that he defied
all odds in branching out into politics. But how did Arnold get to the
point in his life where he finds himself today, and what obstacles stood in
the way on his path to becoming a modern icon of so many mediums?




Before




Arnold’s first major set-back in his adult life came with his immigration
and change of scenery upon his move to the United States of America. He had
arrived in the New World with no money to his name and with little
knowledge or grasp of the English language. This all made everything seem
very outlandish and difficult for Arnold. He was a keen bodybuilder, and
always strove for that as his dream profession; however, he needed to get
by. He had to put the bodybuilding to the side in place of work, as he took
on a job as a bricklayer to earn money to survive.




The main moments that would devastate Arnold’s life would arrive a year
between one and other. In 1971, his brother had died in a car crash, and
only a year later, his father had passed away from a stroke. To make
matters worse, Arnold was required to miss his own father’s funeral due to
having to attend training for a competition at the time.




As for his venture out of bodybuilding, Arnold faced initial criticism in
the acting world. His demeanor, accent, body-type, and name were all
labeled as ‘not suited’ for acting in movies. This did not deter Arnold
from pursuing his career into acting.




After




Just to establish the work ethic that Arnold had and the expectations he
set for himself, Arnold would often break into closed gyms, as well as make
himself sick if he had missed a workout. He states that he would be unable
to even bear the thought of looking at himself in the mirror if he had
missed a workout at the time. This shows his incredibly high standards he
set for himself both mentally and physically in his pursuit of
bodybuilding. Arnold was so dedicated to his bodybuilding, that he even
went AWOL during his time serving his mandatory military service in
Austria, just so he could attend a bodybuilding competition, this earned
him a week of prison time.




Arnold would go on to achieve his dream and win his first of seven Mr.
Olympia titles at the ripe age of 23, this win had made him the youngest
winner of the competition ever, which is a record that he holds still to
this very day.




In his acting career, despite the initial negative stigmas that were placed
upon him in regard to his name, accent and body-type, he decided that was
not going to deter him from following his next venture, typical of Arnold.
He decided that all those features of himself that were deemed odd for
movies, would instead be flipped on their head to create an iconic
character and person within the movie industry. I think it is safe to say
that his plan had worked out in the end.




To really try and complete a trifecta of rocking the boat in terms of
expectations and branching out, Arnold then moved into a career of politics
despite having absolutely no political background. He had won the election
on both occasions in his original running and his re-election campaign with
a landslide of the votes in back to back elections as he was elected to
become the governor of California. Arnold's majorly successful branch into 
politics showed that despite his lack in politically experience, he was popular 
amongst the majority of Californians at the time of his election.




Lessons Learned




1. Never stay stagnant




If there is one thing to take away from Arnold’s career, it is that he
never stayed in the one place. He branched from bodybuilding, to acting, to
politics and excelled in all the fields he adapted himself into. He is the
embodiment of breaking expectations and moving between professional fields.




2. Be hard on yourself, it breaths improvement




Arnold Schwarzenegger was always hard on himself almost to a fault. The
stories of him not being able to stomach looking at himself in the mirror
if he had missed a workout are a prime example of this. Arnold never
cheapened out on himself, and despite the negativity he would lay on
himself a times, it was always done with the intention to breath future
improvement.




3. Never let your previous experiences & endeavors define your future
ones




Arnold was a man who bounced around from field to field, excelling in all.
Despite his judgments from others in regard to what persona he had created
from his previous fields in his career, he never let them define what his
future step was going to be. Arnold was never one to give in and let his
past define his future.




Conclusion




To conclude with, Arnold was a man of many talents, but not by accident. He
challenged himself to excel in every field he entered, regardless of how
different the circumstances he fell in too were from the last. He was hard
on himself and challenged himself to the extreme at times, but it was all
to breathe positive results of the highest quality. It is safe to say that
Arnold Schwarzenegger is a man of many talents who challenged himself in
every scenario he found himself in, whether expected or unexpected, by
accident or on purpose.





Do not miss the chance to check out 
other inspirational and true stories
 available at SuninMe.org













