

J. K. Rowling – A Woman Who Went from Benefits to Billionaire






















The story of 
J. K. Rowling

                          
                          Author of the story: Nathan Brennan


In this short piece we will go over J.K Rowling’s path to success and how she achieved it.






















 More true stories



Introduction




In the modern day we all know J. K. Rowling as one of the richest and most
successful women and authors of all-time, but how did she amount to the
peaks of her career from the lows of the troughs that she had found herself
in?




Before




J. K. Rowling did not have an easy ride on her way to the top. Right as she
began writing and beginning work on the concept for the now ever-famous
Harry Potter book series, she became aware of the news that her mother had
passed away. This news had sent Rowling into a seemingly endless depth of
depression, leaving her with little to no inspiration to continue working
on her dream concept during this time, putting all her hopes and dreams on
hold.




Eventually, to try and recover from the news, she had moved temporarily to
Portugal to teach English. However, after a failed relationship abroad, she
had returned home with further trouble on her doorstep, with a baby
daughter as a single mother. She was on unemployment benefits, something
which for many who have experienced it, is string thin, as well as mentally
draining. It makes you feel like you are in a bottomless pit. She had
barely enough money to get her and her daughter by in life, however, she
would continue to work on her dream idea for Harry Potter whilst her
daughter slept.




J. K. Rowling would then go on to devote her life into the concept of her
dream of Harry Potter, only for that idea to take twelve rejections from
publishers over the years. This constant feed of rejection made Rowling
feel like her concept that she had devoted her life’s work to was doomed to
follow the same path she saw herself as, which was a failure.




After




Despite her numerous setbacks in life, and numerous rejections of her dream
idea, she found solace over time in doing what she loved, which was
writing. This meant that J. K. Rowling, despite how much she had been
rejected and pushed down, would not give up, as this was her dream, and
nothing was going to get in the way of her and getting her dream out to the
world.




Over time, her determined hard work would go on to bear fruit. Harry Potter
as a book would go on to be published and to this day the series of books
have grossed over $7.7billion in revenue. This insane level of success
would be what would cement J. K. Rowling’s place as the first female
billionaire author in history. As her book popularity grew more and more,
and showed no signs of slowing down, it then branched into an arguably even
more successful series of movies. This was the stage of J. K. Rowling’s
life where all the trials and tribulations she had faced in her past, as
well as her dedication to her craft, passion and family, began to finally
show. She had finally made it.




Lessons to be learned




1. Setbacks are not to be wallowed in; they are to be learned from




When J. K. Rowling’s mother had paced, or when she had ended up on benefits
as a single mother, she could have easily have thrown in the towel and
wallowed in her sorrows, instead she ascended above her sorrows. When her
book was rejected the first, second, third or even twelfth time, she could
have easily wallowed in her sorrows then too, but she learned from whatever
trials and tribulations had been thrown from her and decided to use these
lessons from the obstacles in her life to learn from them and move beyond
them in her work.




2. Current situations are temporary if you make them temporary




As previously stated, J. K. Rowling found herself in one of the most
vicious loops and cycles that the lower-class society can find itself in.
That being the cycle of unemployment and unemployment benefits. Along with
the constant social pressures, stigmatization and judgement that comes with
being unemployed and on benefits, there was a lot to point toward Rowling
never getting out of her then-current situation. However, if there is
anything to learn from this, it is that Rowling decided when her time in
this deadly cycle was up, she made the moves and showed the determination
and passion to end the loop that she had found herself in for most of her
life. Not just for herself, but for her daughter.




3. Social barriers and expectations do not determine your outcome




As a woman in a lower-class background, J. K. Rowling started her adult
life off in an immediate disadvantaged situation. She could have decided to
cave into the general outcomes that are almost seemingly pre-determined for
women in lower-class backgrounds, but she didn’t. As well as her passion
being writing, with her dream of being an author being notoriously
difficult as a line of work to find wild and sustainable success in, she
could have let her circumstance and the social expectations of women
authors determine her future, but once again, she did not. She decided she
was going to re-write the statistics and shatter those pre-determined
expectations and go on to become the first billionaire female author.




Conclusion




J. K. Rowling may look now like she had an easy ride on the wave to
success, but that is far from the case. A lifetime worth of challenging
setbacks and rejection that she faced would have been enough to deter
anybody from their dream and to give in to the seemingly endless loop of
negativity and struggles. However, it did not deter her. It only drove her
on in her path to becoming a female and literary icon whose ideas spawned
the most successful book series and one of the most successful movie series
of all-time.





Do not miss the chance to check out 
other inspirational and true stories
 available at SuninMe.org













