

Princess Diana – How Diana become The People's Princess






















The story of 
Princess Diana

                          
                          Author of the story: Nathan Brennan


Princess Diana was seen as the people’s princess, we will go over the path that she took that led her to this reputation amongst the public.  






















 More true stories



Introduction




In the modern-day Princess Diana (Princess of Wales) is known as the royal who broke all sorts
of boundaries previously unknown to royal family members. She was seen as a
woman who was a revolutionary in many ways in regard to royal family
protocol at the time, despite all the good she did in her life, Diana would
go on to tragically pass away in a fatal car crash. In this piece we will
go over what she did during her lifetime, her struggles and
accomplishments, as well as her legacy that she has left behind after her
tragic death.




Before




Early on in her life, Diana's family struggled a lot with their legacy,
feeling very stressed and panicked at the lack of a son to continue their
family name. They were close with members of the royal family also. This
stress would eventually go on to lead to her parent's divorce, meaning
Diana had that to deal with at such an early stage in her life prior to her
time as a royal.




Diana's biggest combat was most probably that of her fight with bulimia
whilst an active member of the royal family. She struggled with bulimia
mainly due to the hollowness of her marriage to Prince Charles, rather than
solely ‘insecurities' like the royals had assumed at the time. She
struggled immensely with her marriage to Charles, with him supposedly
having consistent affairs with his past lover, this being especially
highlighted with their re-marriage upon Diana's passing. The emptiness of
Diana's marriage was something that left her with great feelings of
worthlessness and with remarks that Charles had made to her in reference to
her ‘chubby' figure a week after their engagement, it had only hammered
home the low self-image that Diana had had of herself at the time.




On many occasions, Diana had attempted suicide throughout her life. Despite
these attempts not being serious attempts, but rather calls for help from
the outside, they were still concerning. One example of Diana's struggles
with life was when she had thrown herself into a glass cabinet,
highlighting her battle with mental health at a time where she was crying
out for help from somebody.




After




Diana would often visit homeless shelters as well as terminally ill
patients in hospitals, however she would resent the media attention that
her life and these visits received and would often visit in the evening and
later at night to avoid these kind acts being wrapped in media attention,
showing the good intentions of her heart.




She also helped ease the stigmas surrounding HIV-positive people at the
time, with many fearing even interacting with those who had contracted the
dreadful disease. She broke these boundaries by embracing a person known to
have the disease.




She also would go on to pursue and support a campaign set on banning the
use of landmines in combat. This campaign aimed to ban landmines due to
their common nature to cause post-combat deaths, with many of the injured
from these remaining landmines being children. She set out on a campaign to
an abandoned minefield in Angola, which now bears fruit due to the Ottawa
treaty, which has since banned the use of landmines in combat, which she
no-doubt played her role in doing.




She would die young tragically, but that did not stop her passing on her
unique mindset to her sons William and Harry. Harry especially took the
torch in continuing the legacy his mother had left behind in terms of
breaking royal protocol and boundaries to do what is right. Harry's
now-wife Meghan Markle has had comparisons drawn to Diana in many ways for
the way she conducted herself as a royal despite their very public
step-back from royal duties.




Key Lessons




1. Be kind




Princess Diana had found herself in a privileged position in life, and
despite battling her own demons, was self-aware enough to realize this. Her
acts of selflessness and kindness to those worse off than her in life in
homeless shelters and hospitals for example, even when the media was not
watching was something that we can all admire to treat people how we would
want to be treated regardless of our current situation, their background or
the background we ourselves are from.




2. Break barriers regardless of what others will think




Being a royal, Diana had many protocols that she was expected to adhere to
during her time as part of the royal family, however she ignored many of
them. She would break the barriers as previously mentioned when it came to
the stigma surrounding HIV-positive infected people by embracing them, as
well as breaking barriers in terms of supporting the end of political
campaign such as pursuing the banning of landmines in warfare. She was a
woman who was not conservative enough to hide her thoughts and was always
truthful when speaking her mind regarding any topic, despite the grip that
being a royal family member can often have around ones next. She was a
revolutionary figure whose life was tragically cut short so early on in her
lifetime.




Conclusion




Princess Diana will go down in history as the royal family member who broke
the boundaries between the family and the public, as well as breaking
barriers in terms of moving outside of what was expected from a royal. She
was the relatable princess, the people's princess, and a woman whose legacy
continues to inspire many all over the world and a woman whose work
continues to live on through her sons in the modern-day despite her tragic
early death in a fatal car crash.





Do not miss the chance to check out 
other inspirational and true stories
 available at SuninMe.org













