

Jordan Henderson: From a Big-Money Flop, to Captain of Football Club






















The story of 
Jordan Henderson

                          
                          Author of the story: Nathan Brennan


Jordan Henderson went from big-money flop to captain of the best team on the planet, in this piece we will go over how he turned his career around.






















 More true stories



Introduction




Jordan Henderson has had a rather flip-flop career for many years. Many
Liverpool fans will probably not be too keen to admit that they had doubted
him once upon a time during his 8 years at the club, but they certainly
have gone on to be proven wrong.




Before




Henderson struggled early on in his career as he received a big-money
transfer to one of the biggest clubs on the planet, having only barely
played for a relegation threatened side from his hometown, Sunderland
previously. The big money for him, as well as him being young and English
left a lot of pressure on his shoulders. That piled on with the huge
expectations of playing for one of the biggest clubs on the planet left a
lot of anxiety within Jordan.




After just over one season at the club, where he was rarely played, and
when he was, it was out of position, Jordan was told he can leave. The
manager at the time was actively trying to force him out of the club,
however, despite how much this lack of trust and belief devastated him, he
decided to stay and attempt to fight for his place despite his future being
actively made seem elsewhere.




It was around this time that Jordan’s father had been diagnosed with throat
cancer too, being unable to see his father at his request due to the state
he had found himself in with the disease. Along with consistent judgment
from large proportions of the Liverpool fanbase, as well as picking up
consistent injury issues for two years between 2014-2016, things were
starting to look on the down again with fans wanting him sold and deeming
him not good enough for the club once again, especially since he had taken
over from a club icon as captain a year previous.




After




However, 2017 is when Jordan’s career would finally hit the heights his
hard work expected. He captained Liverpool to back to back Champions League
finals, winning one in the process to win the first European trophy for the
club in over a decade. He would then go on to win the Super Cup as well as
the club’s first ever Club World Cup trophy, and finally, the pinnacle of
all that cemented his place as a legend, the Premier League title. This
title had finally turned the fans and the club in his favor, with it being
the first time Liverpool had won the Premier League, as well as it being
the first time they had won the league in general in over 30 years.




Around this time, he also cemented his place as an activist of some-sort
outside of football, leading the charge for Premier League footballers in
organizing a set-donation amount of each Premier League footballers wages
every week to go toward the NHS during the height of the Coronavirus
pandemic in the UK.




He is now currently on the path to winning the Player of the Year award, as
well as being set to represent England in the European Championships in
2021.




Lessons




1. Believe in your self




With the amount of criticism and doubt that Jordan Henderson has
encountered over the years, it would have been very easy for him to give in
to that mindset that he is indeed not good enough for the level he was
playing at. However, he didn’t give in. He went on to achieve the
unthinkable for one of the biggest clubs on the planet, all the whilst
hushing the people who had criticized him for the last decade or so.




2. Fight for your place




Jordan Henderson was on the edge of being forced out in 2012, and if the
club’s manager had had his own way, Jordan would have been gone. Despite
Jordan being told that if he remained at the club, his game time would be
severely limited, he decided to stay and fight for his place to try win
over the fans and the trust of all people of power within the club, as well
as some legendary players like Luis Suarez who had told Henderson in a
heated argument that he was not good enough. He decided to stand up for
himself however and went on to win back that trust and place in the team,
and today looks like one of the players who is irreplaceable in the lineup.
This sentiment of not giving up and fighting for your right to be where you
are in life, regardless of what others think is a lesson of great
importance for many.




Conclusion




Jordan Henderson was a boy when he joined one of the biggest clubs on the
planet for a massive fee in 2011. He faced personal battles, as well as
struggling with disease within his family and being unable to see his
parent for a period of time when he was receiving some of the worst
criticism and abuse in the Premier League for a player of such a young age.
He was close to being forced out the door by those who he’d hoped would
have believed in him, so instead, he chose to believe in himself, going on
to become one of the most successful players and captains in one of the
biggest clubs on the planet’s history, despite all the challenges he had
faced, especially regarding his ability. 2019 was the year Jordan Henderson
made the haters question themselves, but 2020 was the year that he silenced
them for good and cemented his place in the history of Liverpool Football
Club for the rest of time alongside the greats.





Do not miss the chance to check out 
other inspirational and true stories
 available at SuninMe.org













