

Bruce Lee – The Man Who Bridges the West and East






















The story of 
Bruce Lee

                          
                          Author of the story: Nathan Brennan


Bruce Lee was a cultural icon and he remains one to this very day. He was a man who perfected himself in many mediums. 






















 More true stories


Introduction



Bruce Lee is one of the most iconic men to live in the last 100 years. He
is most known for his time as one of the most well-known and iconic actors
of his time, as well as being a renowned and often mind-boggling martial
artist throughout his life. He was also a martial arts instructor alongside
his own talents of the subject, along with being a director of some films
that he had starred in too. He was influential in also bridging connections
between the often distant Western and Eastern cultures of the world, often
being quoted as the man who single handedly bridged the two regions
together.



Before



Bruce Lee learned that self-defense was a necessity very early on in his
life when he was attacked and beaten by a gang in Hong Kong. This was the
exact moment that spurred him on into pursuing the mastery of martial arts.
He had sought to improve himself after this event rather than cowering in
fear. He had even gone as far in martial arts as to develop his own
fighting style, due to his open criticism of the already developed fighting
styles not being practical enough for his own liking.




He also struggled in the acting world initially, with Asian stereotypes
proving prevalent in the film industry at the time, especially in the West.
Many films and directors were not exactly keen on an Asian man being the
lead character of a project and this often resulted in Bruce being rejected
and replaced for roles in many occasions, despite this, he did not give up
his acting dream.




His death was tragic, a co-star of his had given him medicine to sooth a
headache he had been having, and unfortunately, he never woke up after
taking the medicine, he was ruled to have died due to his brain swelling
from a reaction to the medicine. He tragically died at the age of just 32,
just days before the premiere of 'Enter the Dragon'.



After



Despite his tragically short life, Bruce Lee had achieved so much with the
time he had been given. By just the young age of 18, he had gone to act
within an incredible twenty films already, as well as developing his own
martial arts fighting style.




He would go on to open his own martial arts school in Seattle, and would
then go on to open another school in Oakland not too long after, proving
his passion in developing the ability for others to gain knowledge in
martial arts.




His major successes in the movie industry began with films such as 'The Big
Boss' and the even more popular 'Fists of Fury', he had even gone on to
choreograph, write, direct and star in the scenes he had been in within
'Way of the Dragon', proving that Bruce was a lot more than a one trick
pony in the film world.




After his death, he had been listed in Time Magazine's '100 most
influential people of the 20
th
 century', as well as having the
major honor of a statue unveiling of himself in LA in 2013 in honor of
commemorating and acknowledging the accomplishments he had achieved during
his short life.




Bruce Lee was an icon, and still is today, and his work especially when it
came to bridging the gap between Asian and western cultures throughout the
20
th
 century breaking the barriers set by the racial stereotypes
and definitions at the time.





What lessons can we learn from Bruce Lee's life?




1. Pursue Your Own Style



It is easy to fall into the general styles that are developed by others or
styles that are seen as already developed and fool proof by the world and
society. Bruce Lee defied the already developed style of the world when it
came to martial arts, and despite this, he saw the flaws within these
traditional styles and sought to pursue his own style that fit him the
best.



2. Adapt into Different Mediums



Bruce Lee adapted his talents across the world of entertainment and the
educational/fighting world. He became an expert in the martial arts world,
as well as being a clinical educator of the skill to those who were
interested. He was extremely talented in the acting world, as well as his
writing and directing ability to assist his talents with acting. He adapted
himself across different mediums and never settled or stagnated at any
given moment of time.



Conclusion



Overall, Bruce Lee was a cultural icon and he remains one to this very day,
as shown by his commemoration throughout the 21
st
 century. His
talents were spread across multiple mediums, striving for perfection in all
of them. He achieved so much despite his short life, when it was ended so
tragically early. He will always be remembered as one of the most
influential men of the 20
th
 century in all the areas of
expertise that he found himself in. Bruce Lee is an inspiration for all of
us in the modern-day, and his story is one that all of us can learn from to
strive to improve ourselves and change the conventions of the world that we
find ourselves in currently, much like Bruce Lee strove to do in the world
of martial arts and the racial stereotypes that were prevalent in the world
of Western film making and acting at the time.





Do not miss the chance to check out 
other inspirational and true stories
 available at SuninMe.org













