

Angelina Jolie: Hollywood Glamour meets Heart of Gold






















The story of 
Angelina Jolie

                          
                          Author of the story: Thomas Dalton


The Story of Angelina Jolie, one of the most famous women in the world with a dark past.






















 More true stories



Introduction




Angelina Jolie is a famous American actor who has been a highest paid
actress many times. She has also branched out into filmmaking later on in
her career. She is also extremely well known for her humanitarian work.
Angelina was born on the 4th of June 1975 in Los Angeles California. Her
parents were John Voight and Marcheline Bertrand who were both also actors.
Her father John Voight was a very well known award-winning actor however
her mother slowed down her career in order to raise her children. Angelina
Jolie also has a brother named James Haven. The siblings both took the
Voight off their names due to an estrangement with their father. After
moving back and forth between Los Angeles and New York, Angelina found it
hard during her high school years. She attended Beverly Hills High School
but found that lots of the other kids were very pretentious and treated her
differently because her family was not as well off. Although her parents
were famous they had since been divorced and her mother was living on a
modest wage.




Before




Angelina Jolie has been very upfront with the troubles of her teen years.
She self harmed and cut herself and struggled with insomnia and eating
disorders. As a result of this she began experimenting with drugs. She
claims that she had tried every drug possible by her early twenties and
even had two suicide attempts. One was when she was 19 and the other at the
age of 22 when she attempted to hire a hitman to assassinate her. She
decided to act professionally from age 16 but it was a rocky start. She
starred in five of her brother's student films and also in several music
videos from artists such as Lenny Kravitz, Meatloaf, and The Lemonheads.
Her first Hollywood feature was "HackersH in 1995 but it wasn't a box
office hit. Angelina Jolie continued to star in a few films but had very
little luck with critics, most saying that she was just a pretty face who
pouts. It was until 1997 that Angelina Jolie's career would take off. She
starred in the film 'George Wallace' and won a golden globe award. The
following year she starred in the HBO film 'GIA' in which she would win her
second consecutive Golden Globe award as well as a nomination for an Emmy
and also an award from the screen actors guild. Although her acting career
had very much taken off, Angelina Jolie continued to have troubles with her
mental health. At the age of twenty-four she had a nervous breakdown and
was very sick. She had to spend 72 hours in a psychiatric ward but was
eventually released.




After




Angelina Jolie's film career only went from strength to strength. She grew
from her earlier struggles and was a very hard-working actor, often
releasing more than one film per year. As she continued to work harder, she
started to get higher praise from her critics. By the time she starred in
Girl, Interrupted...she had fully cemented her position as a great actress
in Hollywood and won her third golden globe award. She also received her
first academy award. Angelia Jolie then went on to star in her first
blockbuster film 'Gone in Sixty Seconds' which was followed quickly by the
Tomb Raider film. Both were huge commercial films and would propel Jolie on
an extremely high profile career.




While shooting the film Lara Croft: Tomb Raider in Cambodia in 2001
Angelina Jolie came across a life-changing experience. She discovered a
war-torn nation and witnessed first hand the humanitarian crisis that was
happening in Cambodia at the time. Upon her return after filming she would
fly back to Cambodia and then to Pakistan, donating one million dollars to
the United Nations High Commissioner of Refugees. Angelia Jolie would spend
the next ten years going on over 40 missions with the UNHCR where she would
meet with refugees in over 30 different countries. Her main goal was to
raise awareness for refugees which she would cover in a book published in
2003. The book was called 'Notes from My Travels' and was released at the
same time as her film Beyond Borders. Angelina has shown to the world that
you can use your fame and fortune for good use and has always done so.




In terms of her personal life, Angelina Jolie has been married three times
but her most notable marriage would be with fellow film star Brad Pitt. The
pair share six children, three adopted and three conceived biologically.
She has made it very well known that the children that she has adopted know
about their roots and that they are being brought into each other's world
rather than them just being brought into her life.




What lessons can we learn from Angelina Jolie's Life?




Angelina is really one of the most inspiring women of our time and is truly
an example for people all over the world.




1. Your teenage years will pass




Many people really struggle through their teenage years, particularly with
bullying. It is important to know that this phase of your life is temporary
and you will find your place in the world. Angelina Jolie went through some
very tough times growing up and even had a couple of suicide attempts but
she pushed through and went on to have one of the most successful acting
careers of all time.




2. Persistence and hard work are key




Angelina Jolie faced a lot of backlash for her acting at the beginning of
her career. Lots of film critics said that she couldn't act and that she
was always relying on her looks. It took nearly six years of working as an
actress to be finally recognized with a golden globe award. The praise from
critics was to come after this but she had earned it after years and years
of persisting. Never give up on your dreams, even if you are told that you
are not good enough; keep going!




3. Sometimes helping others can help yourself




Angelina Jolie went through many struggles in her life. Even when she had
an established career it was evident that she was still going through some
of her own problems. Once she began on her journey of helping others she
really gained a peaceful and happy life. This is a great lesson showing
that oftentimes when you go out of your way to help somebody achieve their
happiness you will also find inner happiness.





Do not miss the chance to check out 
other inspirational and true stories
 available at SuninMe.org













